	     Compiling the MillionVis source distribution
			  Jean-Daniel Fekete
			  10th of March 2016

Compiling MillionVis requires several external packages, all free.

The FreeType2 library, from http://www.freetype.org
The FreeType Jam program, from http://www.freetype.org
The Hans Boem garbage collector, available at
    http://www.hpl.hp.com/personal/Hans_Boehm/gc/index.html
The zlib library for compressing/decompressing files, available at
    http://www.zlib.org
The png library for reading and writing PNG compressed images,
    available at http://www.libpng.org/
The OpenGL library, with its utilities, available with your system
    usually.
The GLFW library for window management and input handling, available at
    https://www.glfw.org/
The Expat library for reading XML, available at
    http://expat.sourceforge.net

Fortunately, most of these libraries come with recent Linux systems.
If your system doesn't have them, you will need to download and
compile them and specify the location of the libraries and sources in
the file Jamrules.

In any case, even if you have the packages, you should check their
location in the file Jamrules.  Don't forget the semicolon at the end
of the Jamrules file or the jam program will not work.


COMPILING

Use the jam program from the FreeType distribution to compile the
system. You should setup your environment to tell jam what compiler
you use.  In the Windows environment, use the environment variable
JAM_TOOLSET to specify the compiler.  It can be set to VISUALC or
MINGW.  All the environment variables required by the compiler should
also be set correctly for jam to work.

When everything is installed and setup, connect to the toplevel
directory and type:
jam

the compilation should go to the end, sometimes with some warnings
depending on the compiler.

When it is done, you should have everything compiled in the toplevel
directory, with several test files and the main "treemap2" file ready
to use.

MODERN CMAKE BUILD (RECOMMENDED)

The project now also supports modern CMake builds. Create a build directory
and use CMake:

mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j4

This will automatically find and link the required dependencies including
GLFW, OpenGL, FreeType, PNG, zlib, and Expat. The CMake build system
is the recommended way to build the project.


PROBLEMS

Lots of problems may arise when compiling MillionVis or the required
libraries.  I cannot explain everything there and MillionVis has not
yet been tested outside of the Windows world.  If you find bugs or
fixes for the configuration files, let me know and I'll incorporate
them in the MillionVis distribution.

When running the MillionVis program, you may experience the program
suddenly "freezes" for several seconds.  This is due to the garbage
collector reclaiming unused memory.  In principle, the garbage
collector is fast enough not to be noticed.  However, on some Windows
configurations, the graphics system seems to allocate a large amount
of memory (maybe direct access to video memory) and the garbage
collector loses a lot of time running through this memory searching
for potential pointers.  I haven't found a fix for now but if you find
one, let me know.
